README.md, before:

# Modular-sensor-integrated--AI-anomaly-detection-Robotic-ROV-for-submerged-Environmental-Analysis
This project presents a modular Biosensor-integrated Remotely Operated Vehicle (ROV) designed for submerged environmental analysis with a main objective on coral-reef health assessment using the incentives of AI networks. The system is engineered to support environmental monitoring tasks particularly in coral-reef ecosystems which are estimated to sustain up to 94% of marine life according to recent ecological studies. The platform incorporates high-accuracy CTD sensors and a suite of biosensors capable of detecting biological and chemical indicators of reef stress. These measurements are supported by hydrodynamic framing, multi-vector thruster placement, and a stabilized sensor suite that enhances data fidelity under varying flow conditions.
A computational analysis module integrates CTD and biosensor data with computer-vision based species identification and anomaly detection allowing real-time classification of irregular patterns such as bleaching signatures and water-quality deviations. A two-axis manipulator arm maneuvered by a differential gear mechanism and equipped with a precision claw that allows controlled physical sampling and interaction with delicate substrates, for simplicity on a custom water sampling system.
Comparative analysis against advanced U.S. ROV systems shows performance gaps in tether bandwidth, thrust-to-weight ratio, and autonomous correction algorithms, while also prototypeing strengths in sensor integration, modularity, and low-cost mechanical efficiency. Making this ROV a significantly better operation than US ROV’s .This work demonstrates that a compact, accessible, and computationally enhanced ROV can serve as a viable tool for coral-reef research and environmental monitoring particularly for institutions with limited resources.

<img width="1188" height="1023" alt="Screenshot 2025-12-23 155807" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/189cf8d9-52d4-46d2-8a5d-744105b861f4" />
<img width="1225" height="1165" alt="Screenshot 2025-12-24 111747" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/12971b0e-d562-47e6-8e75-2046b995e37c" />
<img width="1327" height="1202" alt="Screenshot 2025-12-23 161054" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/8bc9254c-1568-43f6-aab8-e153be110991" />

Commit message:

Update README with assembly details and CAD link
Added information about machine screws and CAD link.

README.md, after:

# Modular-sensor-integrated--AI-anomaly-detection-Robotic-ROV-for-submerged-Environmental-Analysis
The parts use 6-32 machine screws for a tight fit, please view the onshape cad for further instruction.
https://cad.onshape.com/documents/f6c53611985dcc548337bcb0/w/4fcee0e122c43fe78e41f530/e/21ea8d175b8de50cc9314b9b?renderMode=0&uiState=6953099707123b7785661fb4
This project presents a modular Biosensor-integrated Remotely Operated Vehicle (ROV) designed for submerged environmental analysis with a main objective on coral-reef health assessment using the incentives of AI networks. The system is engineered to support environmental monitoring tasks particularly in coral-reef ecosystems which are estimated to sustain up to 94% of marine life according to recent ecological studies. The platform incorporates high-accuracy CTD sensors and a suite of biosensors capable of detecting biological and chemical indicators of reef stress. These measurements are supported by hydrodynamic framing, multi-vector thruster placement, and a stabilized sensor suite that enhances data fidelity under varying flow conditions.
A computational analysis module integrates CTD and biosensor data with computer-vision based species identification and anomaly detection allowing real-time classification of irregular patterns such as bleaching signatures and water-quality deviations. A two-axis manipulator arm maneuvered by a differential gear mechanism and equipped with a precision claw that allows controlled physical sampling and interaction with delicate substrates, for simplicity on a custom water sampling system.
Comparative analysis against advanced U.S. ROV systems shows performance gaps in tether bandwidth, thrust-to-weight ratio, and autonomous correction algorithms, while also prototypeing strengths in sensor integration, modularity, and low-cost mechanical efficiency. Making this ROV a significantly better operation than US ROV’s .This work demonstrates that a compact, accessible, and computationally enhanced ROV can serve as a viable tool for coral-reef research and environmental monitoring particularly for institutions with limited resources.

<img width="1188" height="1023" alt="Screenshot 2025-12-23 155807" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/189cf8d9-52d4-46d2-8a5d-744105b861f4" />
<img width="1225" height="1165" alt="Screenshot 2025-12-24 111747" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/12971b0e-d562-47e6-8e75-2046b995e37c" />
<img width="1327" height="1202" alt="Screenshot 2025-12-23 161054" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/8bc9254c-1568-43f6-aab8-e153be110991" />
